.\" -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 2015 Funtoo Solutions Inc.
.\" Distributed under the terms of the GNU GPL version 2 or later
.\"
.TH EGO 1 "September 2017" "Funtoo Linux" ego
.SH NAME
ego \- Funtoo's personality tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ego
.RI [ module ]
.RI [ info|options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B ego
is Funtoo's configuration and management meta-tool.
.P
Typing
.BR ego
will print a list of available commands. Those commands are called ego modules. New modules can be implemented in any language. Ego's modules are designed to be stand-alone commands, so it allows you to access them via shortcuts as well.
.SH MODULES
.TP
.B doc "wiki_article"
\fBego doc wiki_article_name\fR (shortcut \fB/usr/bin/edoc\fR) will download and display documentation from the Funtoo Linux wiki. This functionality is not guaranteed to work with all pages but should work with the \fBInstall\fR and \fBNetworking\fR pages and many others. Example usage:

.nf
$ edoc "Install" | less
.fi
.TP
.B profile
Manage Funtoo Linux profiles like: arch, subarch, build, flavor and mix-ins. Shortcut is:
.B epro.
.TP
.B sync
Create an initial clone or update the Funtoo meta-repo. The default 'prime' kits will be synced. To change this behavior,
specify a setting such as the following in \fB/etc/ego.conf\fR:

.nf
[kits]

python-kit = 3.6-prime
.fi

It is also possible to use the \fBsync_user\fR [global] setting to specify a username to use for performing git operations. The
default is now 'portage'. And the [global] \fBmeta_repo_path\fR and \fBkits_path\fR options are available for setting the location
of meta-repo as well as kits. If the \fBkits_path\fR is a relative path, it will be relative to \fBmeta_repo_path\fR, but it can
also be set to an absolute path in which case it will be used as the kits directory location, unmodified.
.TP
.B query
Query informations about packages. For instance, \fBego query versions dev-lang/python\fR will show all python versions available and some extra information.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Daniel Robbins <drobbins@funtoo.org> (\fBprimary author\fR)
Antoine Pinsard <antoine.pinsard@gmail.com> (\fBego query\fR)
Michael Vetter <g.bluehut@gmail.com> (\fBinitial man page \fR)
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR epro (1)
