.\" -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 2015 Funtoo Solutions Inc.
.\" Distributed under the terms of the GNU GPL version 2 or later
.\"
.TH EPRO 1 "May 2015" "Funtoo Linux" epro
.SH NAME
epro \- Funtoo Linux profile management tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
.BR epro
[\fIshow\fR]
.TP
.BR epro
\fIprofile-type\fR \fIdesired-profile\fR
.TP
.BR epro
[ \fIlist\fR [ \fIprofile-type\fR ] | \fIshow-json\fR | \fIget\fR \fIprofile-type\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B epro
is the official system profile management tool for Funtoo Linux. It is a module of the
.B ego
super-command, meaning you can also access it by typing 
.B ego profile
on the command-line.
.TP
In Funtoo Linux, profiles are used to defined common system settings for the current system's architecture, sub-architecture, general type (also called a 'flavor') and zero or more optional user-selectable add-in settings (called 'mix-ins'.) The official names of the profile types are:
.TP
.BR arch
The architecture defines the base system architecture, such as \fIx86-64bit\fR, \fIarm-32bit\fR or \fIpure64\fR.
It is set at system build time, and the arch profile is not designed to be changed by the user. It is not something that it typically makes sense to change, so it should be treated as a read-only setting.
.TP
.BR subarch
The subarch, or sub-architecture, is set at system build time and defines the current optimizations/instruction sets enabled for compilation. In many cases, this can be changed safely by users, depending on the feature set of the underlying hardware. For example, a user might choose to change the subarch from \fIgeneric-64\fR to \fIintel64-haswell\fR if he/she decides to begin building applications using an Intel Haswell-compatible instruction set and the underlying hardware supports these instructions.
.TP
.BR flavor
A system generally always has a flavor set, which defines the general system type. Desktop users will likely want to set the \fIdesktop\fR flavor, which will enable various media and graphical options when emerging new packages. Flavors often enable other flavors or mix-ins automatically. For example, the \fIdesktop\fR flavor will enable the \fIworkstation\fR flavor, plus a number of media-related mix-ins. These flavors are mix-ins are called \fIinherited\fR and are listed at the bottom of \fIepro show\fR output if any exist.
.TP
.BR mix-ins
Mix-ins are optional settings that can be enabled as desired by users. Often, they are collections of settings designed to allow the easy merging of large pieces of software, such as the \fIgnome\fR mix-in for GNOME and te \fIkde\fR mix-in for KDE. One or more mix-ins can be enabled simultaneously in many cases.
.TP
Typing
.BR epro
or
.B epro show
will give you an overview of the system's current profile settings. 
.SH USAGE
To specify an arch, subarch, build or flavor, just use it like:
.IP
.B epro
.I profile-type
.I desired-profile
.TP
For example, set your system flavor to desktop as follows:
.IP
.B epro flavor desktop
.TP
Since you can have several mix-ins enabled, you can specify more than one option when changing your mix-ins. To add a mix-in, specify it as an argument to \fIepro mix-ins\fR either as-is or with a preceeding plus ("+") sign. Use the minus ("-") sign before the name of a mix-in to remove it. Multiple mix-ins can be added or removed at once. 
.TP
For example, deselect the kde and cinnamon mix-ins and enable the gnome one instead by using:
.IP
.B epro mix-ins -kde -cinnamon +gnome
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B list
Displays a list of all available profile settings of each type. Enabled profiles are highlighted in cyan, directly enabled ones are printed in bold and have a asterisk appended.
.TP
.B show
Displays your system's current profile settings, plus additional information about inherited mix-ins and flavors. This is the default behavior when epro is run with no options.
.TP
.B show-json
Outputs profile settings and paths in JSON format, suitable for parsing by other applications.
.TP
.B get \fIprofile-type\fR
Outputs profile settings for specified profile type in raw string format, suitable for parsing by other applications or scripts.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Daniel Robbins <drobbins@funtoo.org>
.fi
.SH COMMENTS
.TP
This manpage was written by Michael Vetter <g.bluehut@gmail.com>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ego (1)
